teaching a puppy not to jump at hands
and carried objects
the problem behavior jumping and
mouthing any object I carried or
sometimes just my hands what I wanted
calm walking along with me without
bothering the object or my hands what
didn't work standing Stockstill turning
my back or holding the object up high
what did work number one practicing
walking at my side without a leash and
at first without anything in my hands
number two practicing all sorts of Zen
good girl pop
Oh number three the heart of the
training walking around and clicking the
puppy for walking sitting or standing
politely without jumping we practiced by
starting with boring objects in my hands
and working up
girl
if you try this method at first you may
need to interrupt the puppy while she's
dashing towards your hand click then
throw the treat behind her
after you do that a few times she will
start to check herself then you can
click the hesitation
here are some other things I clicked as
we progressed
you
hints remember to carry things with both
hands you can use a life reward and let
her have the item on occasion if
appropriate keep a very high rate of
reinforcement keep the puppy busy going
after the treats
keep in mind this is an instinctive
behavior you won't undo it overnight so
yes you will have to carry cookies in
your pocket around the house and catch
your puppy not jumping or mouthing
thanks for watching